---
title: UI/UX design
description: web development knowledge
date: 07 / 07 / 2022
tags: ["Tech"]
---

<p>43. UI/UX Design</p>

<p>Let's us discuss more on UI and UX design today. As the web become a essential part of our daily life now. Experts are getting more interested in providing a better user experience while they are using the internet. That's why UI and UX design are very popular now. However, how to differentiate  between UI and UX as people are most often getting confused in these two terms while they usually group together as UI/UX design.
<br />
For UI, it stands for user interface. It is the graphical layout of an application. It consists of the buttons users click on, the text they read, the images, sliders, text entry fields, and all the rest of the items the user interacts with. These visual elements, interaction, or animation must all be designed as the user interface. The UI designer would choose the color theme, font, buttons styles which related to the concern with aesthetics. With their support, the interface would be more attractive and united.
<br />
For UX, it stands for user experience. It is determined by how users interact with the application. Would it be smooth or confusing? Would it be easy to access on different components for the users? Could they feel struggled before the users can achieve their purposes? UX designer would concern about the user interface as to determine how it operates with functionalities.
<br />
If we want to achieve a seamless experience, the UI and UX designer would work together. However, research support plays an essentail part as well. As we would like to boost user experience, we have to know what the users want first. After that, wireframes can be produced for testing, with fast visual prototypes and A/B tests of different possible version of look.
<br/>
UI/UX design plays a essential role in web development in enhancing and envolving th production of web applications.
</p>
